uh-uh new yen before I went on
antidepressants
I was completely wholeheartedly against
them but then I learned that they're
actually wonderful and saved my life I
mean it's ironic when you think about it
isn't it that a drug that's marketed as
an antidepressant has a side effect of
suicide to take the irony further now
the FDA's new label warnings and the
Canadian we'd like my books view 10
years ago that these drugs produce
anxiety insomnia over stimulation
impulsivity aggressivity hostility and
Oh general worsening of their condition
15 years ago I warned the FDA and I
warned the country and toxic psychiatry
that antidepressants were causing a
stimulant amphetamine like syndrome that
was resulting in violence and murder in
1994 and talking back to prozac I warned
the country in the FDA again this time
with tons now scientific data on the
same issues during that period of time I
was asked to be and this is very
relevant to deliberations the scientific
investigator for all of the combined
Prozac suits almost 200 of them so I got
to look at all the sealed data that Eli
Lilly Lilly didn't want anybody else to
see so about 20 books later now and a
few dozen scientific studies and
innumerable innumerable product
liability suits where I've looked at
sealed data I've come to tell you that
you're evaluating junk you're evaluating
carefully edited expurgated data that
I've seen and you haven't this is a most
remarkable circumstance the first few
weeks I was on antidepressants I spent
every car I just like laughing by myself
so I was like oh my god I spent my whole
life not knowing what this feels like
and what we find is that it's that
initial few weeks when the drug has the
most impact but once I went on
antidepressants and it worked
instantaneously I felt happiness for the
first time and I was so
and I was like wow I really needed this
I do actually have an imbalance in my
brain we don't have any evidence that
any routine psychiatric problem from
anxiety to depression and even
schizophrenia has anything to do with a
biochemical imbalance stabilize your
chemical imbalance so where did an idea
like that come from we know the answer
it was actually made up by the brilliant
minds that the drug company Eli Lilly
even before prozac was approved for
depression by the FDA Lilly was sending
its minions it's paid physicians and
consultants out into the world to say
that depression was caused by a
biochemical imbalance and in particular
a kind of sluggish serotonin
neurotransmitter just not enough
serotonin working but Lilly knew from
the beginning that it wasn't very simple
that this drug prozac wasn't exactly
going to jack up your serotonin like it
was supposed to the whole idea behind
prozac was that it would block the
removal of serotonin from those active
places in your brain called the synapses
so here's the other cell and it's
picking up serotonin and then comes
prozac and it blocks the removal of the
serotonin from this space and that's
supposed to mean you're going to puddle
serotonin you're going to increase
serotonin in the synapse
well in fact and Lilly knew this knew
this before the drug was approved the
brain doesn't like to have the serotonin
puddling in its synapses and the brain
responds by stopping producing serotonin
it responds by increasing its ability to
remove serotonin it responds by becoming
less sensitive to serotonin so from the
beginning it was a flim-flam it was a PR
claim that you got biochemical and back
balances and pros X gonna fix it
so what do you conclude from this people
who have emotional problems you may we
all have emotional problems we don't
have anything wrong in our brains and if
we do if someday some of these problems
turn out to be caused by something going
on in our brains rather than in our
lives in our emotions in our hearts in
our feelings if it turns out to be so
then psychiatric drugs aren't fixing
them because psychiatric drugs are
causing biochemical imbalances in your
brain yes I am on antidepressants I have
been for about a month and a half and my
life has absolutely changed like more
than I ever expected when you're on them
you don't appreciate their harmful
effects anxiety insomnia over
stimulation impulsivity aggressivity
hostility and Oh general worsening of
their condition if you do begin to
become upset or disturbed on a drug
let's say you're taking xanax or you're
taking an antidepressant you start
getting irritable and angry and you yell
at your family you're not likely to
think it's the drug you're likely to
think it's my wife or my husband or the
kids or the boss or the job you won't
get straight that you've been changed by
the drug when I went on antidepressants
for the first time I felt for the first
time what stability felt like
antidepressants some actually do help
with anxiety so that has been the most
amazing improvement for me I barely have
any anxiety anymore you might think
you're feeling better than ever when
you're doing worse than ever
and this is common this is really common
it's related somewhat to the feeling of
you for you I'm so happy if you for you
which is one gets from cocaine around
and can't often also get from the
antidepressants and that sense of
feeling better than ever is as I
mentioned in one of my earlier reports
one of the most dangerous places you can
get the psychoactive substance is by
diminishing our capacity by impairing
our frontal lobes prevent us from
appreciating their harmful effects
that's why somebody can feel like they
can drive better than ever and you know
if they get in the car they're likely to
kill themselves or someone else
I feel so called I know I feel like this
psychoactive substances impair our
judgement about their effects on us this
video needs to be made especially if we
want to reach the goal of releasing that
social stigma about mental health and
making it more normalized normalizing
depression is not the same thing as
normalizing the treatment of depression
this word normalized is so slippery it's
so misleading are you really trying to
normalize the experience of human sorrow
anxiety misery suffering which is indeed
as you say normal is indeed part of the
human condition or are you trying to
normalize a drug-induced euphoria and
then contrasting that to human suffering
unhappiness and sorrow with the claim
that any experience of that kind can be
medicalised can be treated as abnormal
can be treated as an illness an illness
that has never been proven to exist by
medical science on the basis of a
chemical imbalance that is no noun to be
fictitious that always was fictitious by
mustering together already debunked and
approved disproven junk science from the
1990s what is it really that you're
trying to normalize I'm so happy it
feels so-called
so about twenty books later now and a
few dozen scientific studies and
innumerable innumerable product
liability suits or I've looked at sealed
data I've come to tell you that you are
evaluating junk normalizing human misery
suffering and sorrow is the opposite of
medicalizing it treating it as a
diagnosable condition that can be
remedied with a pill that has been in
the last 20 years more thoroughly
debunked than anything else on the
psychiatrist's shelf antidepressants are
a debunked fad drug from the 1990s
people like you think you're doing
something morally positive in
normalizing them but you're not what
your normalizing is junk science but new
gel